Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computing device to perform specific tasks. It allows us to give instructions to a computer in a language the computer understands to produce various kinds of output.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development
What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment, which help the user to code more easily.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.NetBeans, Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Android Studio, Enide Studio 2014, BlueJ, jEdit, jGRASP, jSource, JDeveloper,  DrJava.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.Editor (Eclipse/Intellij)> Source code> Java Compiler(javac)> Bytecodes (Classname.class)>JVM> Operating System.
what is class?
A.A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.
What is object?
A.An object is an instance of a class.
What is the entry point of an application?
A.The main method is the entry point of a Java application. Specifically, when the Java Virtual Machine is told to run an application by specifying its class (by using the java application launcher), it will look for the main method with the signature of public static void main(String[] args){}
Why main is static?
A.This is necessary because main() is called by the JVM before any objects are made. Since it is static it can be directly invoked via the class. Similarly, we use static sometime for user defined methods so that we need not to make objects. void indicates that the main() method being declared does not return a value.
Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default. The root class of the Java class hierarchy. All non-primitive types (including arrays) inherit either directly or indirectly from this class. Object is the super class of all other classes you use, including the ones you implemented.
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executable. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.Interface can have only abstract methods. Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods. From Java 8, it can have default and static methods also. Abstract class can have final, non-final, static and non-static variables. Interface has only static and final variables. Abstract class can provide the implementation of interface. Interface can’t provide the implementation of abstract class.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.No, Because an abstract class is an incomplete class (incomplete in the sense it contains abstract methods without body and output) we cannot create an instance or object.
  There are two ways you can achieve this. 1) Either you extend / implement the Abstract class / interface in a new class, create the object of this new class and then use this object as per your need. 2) The Compiler allows you to create anonymous objects of the interfaces in your code.
what is Access Specifier?
A.Access specifiers for classes or interfaces in Java. ... But, the classes and interfaces themselves can have only two access specifiers when declared outside any other class. 1) public. 2) default (when no access specifier is specified) We cannot declare class/interface with private or protected access specifiers.
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OOP concepts in Java are the main ideas behind Java's Object Oriented Programming. They are an abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism. Basically, Java OOP concepts let us create working methods and variables, then re-use all or part of them without compromising security.
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.A Java package is a mechanism for organizing Java classes into namespaces similar to the modules of Modula. Java packages can be stored in compressed files called JAR files, allowing classes to download faster as a group rather than one at a time.
  java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it. Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are always imported).
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Java application programming interface (API) is a list of all classes that are part of the Java development kit (JDK). It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces, along with their methods, fields, and constructors. These prewritten classes provide a tremendous amount of functionality to a programmer.
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.To avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class. But through the interface, multiple inheritance is possible in java. No java doesn't support multiple inheritance directly because it leads to overiding of methods when both extended class have a same method name.
What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different. It is similar to constructor overloading in Java, that allows a class to have more than one constructor having different argument lists.
  Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A.Exceptions are events that occur during the execution of programs that disrupt the normal flow of instructions (e.g. divide by zero, array access out of bound, etc.). In Java, an exception is an object that wraps an error event that occurred within a method and contains: Information about the error including its type. If an exception is a checked exception, the compiler will check that your code either throws the exception or handles it in a try/catch block at compile-time. This is called “to throw an exception” because in Java you use the keyword “throw” to hand the exception to the runtime.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.In Java, static is a keyword used to describe how objects are managed in memory. It means that the static object belongs specifically to the class, instead of instances of that class. Variables, methods, and nested classes can be static. Think of a class for a book.
  The static keyword is used in java mainly for memory management. It is used with variables, methods, blocks and nested class. It is a keyword that are used for share the same variable or method of a given class. This is used for a constant variable or a method that is the same for every instance of a class.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.final keyword in java is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class. Following are different contexts where final is used. Final variables. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified, essentially, a constant. We can declare some or all of a class's methods final. You use the final keyword in a method declaration to indicate that the method cannot be overridden by subclasses.
What is final, finally and finalize?
A.final is a keyword. The variable declared as final should be initialized only once and cannot be changed. Java classes declared as final cannot be extended. Methods declared as final cannot be overridden. We can write system resources release code in finalize() method before getting garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that’s called when an instance of an object is created. Here are the key differences between a constructor and a method:
  •	A constructor doesn’t have a return type.
  •	The name of the constructor must be the same as the name of the class.
  •	Unlike methods, constructors are not considered members of a class.
  •	A constructor is called automatically when a new instance of an object is created.
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. A class can have multiple constructors, as long as their signature (the parameters they take) are not the same. You can define as many constructors as you need. When a Java class contains multiple constructors, we say that the constructor is overloaded (comes in multiple versions).
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.Rectangle rect = new Rectangle(); All classes have at least one constructor. If a class does not explicitly declare any, the Java compiler automatically provides a no-argument constructor, called the default constructor. ... If the parent has no constructor ( Object does have one), the compiler will reject the program.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Keyword “this” is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. It can be used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor. It can be passed as an argument in the method call.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. super is a keyword. It is used inside a sub-class method definition to call a method defined in the super class. Private methods of the super-class cannot be called. Only public and protected methods can be called by the super keyword. It is also used by class constructors to invoke constructors of its parent class. The Cat class in the following example is the subclass and the Animal class is the superclass.
   Private methods of the super-class cannot be called. Only public and protected methods can be called by the super keyword. It is also used by class constructors to invoke constructors of its parent class. Super keyword are not used in static Method. It is used if method is overridden.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a virtual machine that enables a computer to run Java programs as well as programs written in other languages that are also compiled to Java bytecode.
Is JVM platform independent?
A.The JVM must be platform dependent to allow your Java to run on the specific platform. A JVM for Windows will translate your Java into different system calls than a JVM for OS X. No, JVMs are not platform independent. In fact they are platform specific run time environment provided by the vendor.
What version of java are you using?
A. C:\Users\Nahida>java -version
   java version "11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS
   Java(TM) SE Runtime Environment 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS)
   Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM 18.9 (build 11.0.1+13-LTS, mixed mode)

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR (Java ARchive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode. JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code. JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode. JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine.
  JRE is Java Runtime Environment, is what you need to run a Java program and contains a JVM, among other things.
What is compile time and run time?
A. Runtime and compile time are programming terms that refer to different stages of software program development. ... This compilation process is referred to as compile time. A compiled program can be opened and run by a user. When an application is running, it is called runtime.
What is heap?
A.The Java virtual machine has a heap that is shared among all Java virtual machine threads. The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.
How java manage it's memory?
A.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









